CogSci 2015

Reviews of submission #957: "Referential cues modulate attention and
memory during cross-situational word learning"

------------------------ Submission 957, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary/meta-reviewer

Type of Submission

   Cognitive Science
   Linguistics
   Psychology

The Review

   This paper presents a series of experiments for investigating the role of
   gaze as a referential cue in cross-situational word learning. The
   research goal is to contribute to the debate on whether word learners
   maintain single or multiple hypotheses for each word. The results suggest
   that when cross-situational evidence is the only source of information,
   learners maintain multiple hypotheses per word. However, those who are
   exposed to consistent referential cues tend to abandon alternative
   hypotheses and focus on a single interpretation, although the strength of
   this focus depends on the reliability of the cue. 

   The research question is interesting and relevant, if not entirely
   original. The experiments are carefully designed and the analyses are
   sound. The presentation of the studies, especially the details of the
   experimental design and execution, are at times incomplete and confusing,
   but most of the ambiguities can be fixed in the camera ready version.
   Overall, this paper can be a welcome contribution to the conference.


------------------------ Submission 957, Review 1 ------------------------


Type of Submission

   Cognitive Science
   Linguistics
   Psychology

The Review

   In this paper, three cross-situational word learning experiments are
   reported, investigating whether gaze cues to word learning influence the
   way potential referents for novel words are tracked. Eye gaze as a cue
   was implemented in three different ways: deterministically (gaze/no gaze
   between participants) with a schematic drawn face (Exp. 1),
   deterministically with a live video of an actress’ face (Exp. 2), and
   probabilistically (i.e., with varying level of reliability for different
   novel words; Exp. 3). Results from all three experiments suggest that
   learners memory for multiple hypotheses decreases when eye gaze guides to
   the correct mapping (whereas memory for this single hypothesis was
   unaffected; i.e., not enhanced).

   The experiments build on the experimental paradigm by Yurovsky and Frank
   (under review) but add a very relevant aspect of observational word
   learning, the use of referential cues and how they may modulate
   statistical learning. While the idea of investigating how
   multiple-hypotheses tracking interacts with (more or less) deterministic
   cues is not entirely novel (Koehne & Crocker, 2014 for results into the
   same direction with sentence-level constraints), the interplay of
   cross-situational word learning and gaze cues has not been tested before
   and is very important for a complete understanding of word learning.
   Thus, the topic of the article is relevant for any linguist,
   psycholinguist, and psychologist studying word learning. The experimental
   paradigm and statistical analyses are clever and adequate. The article is
   clearly structured and well written with the exception of a number of
   points that are easy to edit (see list below).


   Recommended edits:
   -	Refer to Koehne & Crocker (2014)
   -	Give some more details in Design Section of Experiment 1. In
   particular, make sure everybody understands that: 
   o	per trial only one novel noun was presented
   o	each novel noun was presented exactly twice and
   o	the first time is described as the exposure/learning/familiarization
   (you should use one consistent label here) and the second as the test
   o	learning and test trials are alike
   -	Adapt legend in Figure 2 such that the Social and the No-social
   conditions are clear (dotted line is not visible)
   -	Make sure your formulas etc. show up the way they should (not all
   symbols are shown in the current pdf)
   -	I see that there is no space to elaborate too much on the model
   formulas in the footnotes (e.g. why the random effects are as they are)
   but please mention at least what ‘log’ is (logits, I guess?) – not
   everybody reading the paper has conducted similar experiments/analyses.
   -	Do not call the gaze/no-gaze-condition ‘Condition’ since that
   sounds as if interval, number of referents, and trial type are not also
   factors
   -	Experiment 2, results exposure trials: How can response rates in the
   exposure trials be faster with longer intervals? Does the interval not
   happen after the exposure trial? Did you maybe mean number of referents,
   as you reported for the exposure in Exp. 1?


------------------------ Submission 957, Review 2 ------------------------


Type of Submission

   Cognitive Science
   Linguistics
   Psychology

The Review

   The paper presents three experiments to understand the effect of
   social/referential cues on the number of hypotheses that learners store
   during cross-situational word learning (XSL).  Importantly, there are two
   types of trials for a given novel word: novel word is repeated with new
   novel objects plus the originally selected object (Same trials), novel
   word is repeated with novel objects plus one of the originally present
   objects that were not the learners' selection (Switch trials).  The
   prediction is that success on Switch trials would signify that learners
   have indeed been tracking multiple (alternative) hypotheses. In a third
   experiment, the authors examine how the degree of reliability of the
   social cue affects the tracking of a single or multiple hypotheses by
   learners.

   Interestingly, the experiments confirm the original hypothesis that
   learners keep track of multiple hypotheses when a strong
   social/referential cue is not available.  When such a cue is available,
   then learners are less successful at the Switch trails, suggesting that
   they were more likely to keep track of a single (strong) hypothesis.  The
   third experiment showed that a more reliable social cue decreases the
   likelihood of tracking multiple hypotheses.

   These results are interesting, although not novel.  Importantly, despite
   the claims of the authors in in the introduction, these results do not
   provide any explanation for the experimental results and the theory of
   Trueswell et al. (2013) who claim that learners do not maintain
   statistical evidence during XSL, and that they maintain only a single
   hypothesis.  Through trials, the learners either find confirmation for
   their original hypothesis, or they abandon it if no confirmation is
   found.  Importantly, Trueswell et al. suggest that no statistical
   evidence is maintained, whereas the current article shows that in
   addition to a strong single hypothesis, a set of weaker alternatives are
   maintained.  The latter is not novel, and has been suggested by many
   other experimental and computational work on XSL.  In all cases, the
   suggestion/finding is that a strong single hyp. is maintained along with
   a set of weaker hyp.  The strength of the single hyp. either comes from
   prior experience (through statistical learning), or from a present social
   cue (as is the case in the experiments of the current paper).  


------------------------ Submission 957, Review 3 ------------------------


Type of Submission

   Cognitive Science
   Linguistics
   Psychology

The Review

   Overall, this research examines the cues that adult word learners attend
   to across situations.  They found that when the cues are less reliable,
   then the adults actually attended to a wider array of information
   compared to the more focused array of information they attended to when
   the cues were more direct and reliable.  This appears to be a solid
   research study, but I have several questions about the method/design as
   it was not always clearly explained.

   Main issues:
   1.	Many details of the Design and Procedure of Exp 1 unclear— What are
   Same and Switch trials (Were these trials dependent upon the
   participants’ responses)?  How many trials were administered (e.g., how
   many were there from the set of 140 that they were drawn from)?  Was the
   # of referents on the screen a between or within subjects manipulation? 
   What does it mean that there were 0, 1, 3, or 7 trials between exposure
   and test?  Were there 8 test trials then? 

   2.	So, given that these methodological details need more explanation, it
   was hard for me to understand how the authors made the conclusion that
   the “learners encoded more than a single hypothesis in ambiguous word
   learning situations, even under high attentional and memory demands”

   Additional Minor Comments:
   1.	Was any demographic information collected?
   2.	Figure is hard to decipher in black & white.
   3.	Did any of the participants participate in more than one experiment?
   4.	Exp 2 Exposure trials, missing “is” after eye gaze.  In this same
   section, the authors state that there were faster RTs in social condition
   and after longer intervals.  Is that correct?
   5.	The authors should be consistent in the # of decimal places they use
   in the numbers they list. (for example, end of Exp 2 beta score is really
   long)
   6.	The authors claim that the learner’s memory for their candidate
   hypothesis was not strengthened—why not?



